All right, so
our job was to add a destructive button.
Again, and that's what makes us kinda
really cool here is that button will be
passed to all the children.
The word button, in this case,
is passed to all of them.
So really, all I have to do is write what
makes this unique, which is destructive.
Nope, I want to hit a capital D,
story, and
then there was the arts
variant is destructive.
Cool, so we've got that in place and
I should be able to flip over and
there's my destructive button,
so on and so forth.
It does keep some stuff in memory, cool.
So we've got all of
those in place as well.
Before I take a tour of
this top bar up here,
I do wanna refactor this a little bit.
I'm gonna show you a library that
is my starter kit templates.
It's a library that I include,
because I use it all the time,
which is a lot of times, especially as
our components get more complicated,
we do some amount of composing
of that class string, right?
It's like okay,
add this class if they pass this prop.
For instance, small, medium and large,
that's gonna be a different set of classes
that I'm gonna programmatically add or
remove.
And you can play a game called Fun with
Ternaries and string interpolation.
And I mean, you will still be playing
some version of Fun with Ternaries.
But then you end up with extra
spaces in your class name, and
you're learning parts of
why I am very anxious.
I don't like that, I like the ability
to have some amount of programmability.
This is a utility, you can npm install.
It's actually included in this repo
already that you could write yourself,
but you don't have to because it exists,
and this library is called clsx.
And there are some other ones,
I think there's one called CX.
And all it does is a little utility
library for composing class names.
Cuz right now, I have to remember to add
the space in there as I'm concatenating
different things on.
And with only one unique property to this
button, that's not the big deal, right?
But you can imagine that
eventually I'm gonna cry.
And so all this does, I'll kinda write
just some pseudo code real quick up here,
then we'll delete it, is that it will
take some class names, foo bar, whatever.
And then you can either
do it as one string,
you can give it as many arguments as
you want, you can give it an array.
But more importantly, anything that
evaluates the falsy will not be included.
So if I said something like,
variant is secondary and
then put secondary, right, or
something along those lines,
right, those will not be included
if those don't evaluate the truth.
You can use a ternary, you can use
functions, you can use whatever.
It will effectively let you
programmatically compose a class.
So I'm gonna refactor
this code a little bit,
and we're gonna say
that let class name and
we'll say clsx is initially
those button styles.
And we'll say,
I can do this a bunch of different ways.
You get to choose which
one makes you happy.
You can say something like
variant = = secondary,
and then you do &&, styles.
And we do .secondary.
And you:re gonna do the same thing for
destructive.
Variant === destructive, and
let's say that real quick,
and we'll say && styles.destructive,
right?
This will do the trick and
we can verify that.
Again, this is why I like
developing with this.
But happens to be that the way that
CSS modules work this is as you
can almost tell an object where
the keys are the class names.
And because you saw when I refactor
that code instead of make it button dash
secondary button dash destructive,
now you know why.
I could theoretically also
do something like this.
Right, and that will theoretically get
me secondary and destructive as well.
Could I have made a primary class sharp?
But because that will become undefined,
it won't be included in there.
So we get the same idea and so
you can see how this becomes
a really nice way to do this.
One pattern that this is a choice
time on if you wanna do this, right?
And we've gone back and forth on our team.
And my official stance on this is for
very primitive components,
go for it and maybe you don't do it for
more complicated ones, he says,
before he tells you what it is,
which is do you want the consumer
of this button to be able to pass
in additional classes, right?
Cuz right now, we have a problem with they
pass in classes since that comes after,
then theoretically, they will
override even my default classes.
So one way to solve for that, it's just
an order of operations issue, right?
Now, these class take precedents,
right, but
if you want to let somebody pass in
classes, right, you can do that.
Why do you wanna do that?
The reason you do and
do not wanna do that are the same reason,
why you would wanna let somebody do that.
Okay, well, they need to just
like add some extra padding or
some little edge case.
It's nice to give them that ability,
right, to pass in just a few
extra classes for some amount of
spacing or create another color.
Now, think about the worst
person on your team.
Probably you.
The one that writes the most
reckless code, right, and
know that they are going to do that
rather than update the component and
you will eventually regret it, right?
And that's why I say for very simple
components, maybe you choose to do it.
We currently do this trick and
then I think we kinda had the talk
of maybe we stopped doing this.
But I cannot say it's always a bad idea or
always a good idea.
This is a kind of it depends situation.
So it's the ability to let
them pass on a class name.
So what we can do here is we can separate
out class name as one of the props
that we take in.
And now that we've done this,
we've got the issue where
it's duplicated, so
we'll fix that in a second.
The order doesn't matter anymore, cuz it's
no longer in that prop spread operator,
cuz we pulled it out.
So this is the rest of everything.
So we're taking out variant class name,
this is all the other props.
Now, order doesn't matter.
You can put in whatever order you want.
And what we can do here is we can
actually put it into the CLSX function,
right, and just say, Class name,
and here the order does matter.
We'll call this one classes,
right, I don't know.
It can't be class, cuz of JavaScript.
So now, basically, you've got your default
styles, right, for the primary button.
Then you have any kind of overrides for
the secondary destruction button,
then you have whatever they pass in,
right?
And this means that if they wanna add
some extra margins to the button or
what have you, they can go ahead and
do that, right?
If you don't that, don't do it.
We're on the fence both ways.
I can argue for it, I can argue against
it, but this is a way to kind of let,
at least the primitive
components be extensible.
I would say that for the kinda higher
order components that build out of
multiple kind of atoms and stuff like
that, you might not choose to allow that,
especially, cuz a great example is we have
this component called input with label and
all the different accoutrements.
So then where does the classes go?
They go on the input, they're going to
container, they're going to label, right?
And there's no right answer, that all
answers to that question are wrong,
cuz [LAUGH] I have done them all and
regretted each and every one of them.
So this is a pattern you can
choose to use, choose not to use.
Our current philosophy on my team is that
we're pretty sure it's a bad idea because,
again, then it becomes really clear to
know if you make a change in the design
system, is it consistent
across your code base or not,
because somebody could have added a class,
right?
And so I'm not gonna argue
that we should do that, but
I want to expose you to it
if you have a use case or
you're actually in the way that we're
using these things it is really important.
I would advise though only on the lowest
level doesn't make a ton of sense.